---
layout: post
title: Pong!
category: project
year: 2017
image: "/public/post-thumbnails/2017/pong.png"
version: "0.1"
---

#### Version: {{ page.version }}

<iframe src="/public/projects/pong/{{ page.version }}/index.html" style="border:0px #000000 none;" name="Pong" scrolling="no" height="600px" width="960px"></iframe>

<br>

### Controls:

|    | Left Player | Right Player|
|----|-------------|-------------|
| Up | W | Up Arrow |
| Down | S | Down Arrow |

<br>

### Summary:

After a long hiatus, I decided to return to Unity development and intend to finish my first Unity game, "Totally Original game not to too dissimilar to the 1972 classic, 'Pong'". Or TOGNTTDTT1972CP for short...let's just call it Pong.

It is a multi-player game so grab a friend, enemy or that confused stranger in the street, you could also play with two hands like I do, I'm lonely.

If you've lived under a rock for the last 45 years, Pong is a greatly simplified version of tennis. Your only objective is too get the ball past your opponent and off the opposite side of the screen.

<br>

### Downloads:
Click to download this build for the respective platforms below.

<a href="https://github.com/jackhaydock/Pong-Game/raw/master/Builds/0.1/Pong_01_Win.zip" download>
Windows
</a>
<br>
<a href="https://github.com/jackhaydock/Pong-Game/raw/master/Builds/0.1/Pong_01_Linux.zip" download>
Linux
</a>
<br>
<a href="https://github.com/jackhaydock/Pong-Game/raw/master/Builds/0.1/Pong_01_HTML.zip" download>
HTML/WebGL
</a>

<br>

### Notes:
* Exporting audio into a WebGL build requires a whole different process so that will come later, for now if you want audio (I recommend it, there's a great royalty-free track by Kevin MacLeod) you'll have to download one of the Linux/Windows Builds.
* Once I am happy that this game is complete and tidy, I intend to create a more original version of Pong with extra gamemodes and new features absent from the original Pong.

<br>

### Planned updates:
* Properly reseting paddles when reset button is used
* Pause button
* Audio options
* Visual Countdown timer on serve
* Adjustable resolution

<br>

### Permissions

If you're mad enough to want to use this product on your own site, you are welcome to. Just be nice enough to let me know and give credit.

All assets used in this product are under Creative Commons, Public Domain or of my own creation.

<br>

### Changelog

#### 0.1
* Initial Release
<br><br>

