---
layout: post
title: "Pong (Menu Update)"
category: project
year: 2017
image: "/public/post-thumbnails/2017/pong-logo.png"
version: "0.3"
---

### Version: {{ page.version }}

<iframe src="/public/projects/pong/0.3/index.html" style="border:0px #000000 none;" name="Pong" scrolling="no" height="360px" width="710px"></iframe>

<br>

Click <a href ="/public/projects/pong/0.3/index.html" target="blank">here</a> to play in new tab/window. Useful for resizing the game.

### Controls

|    | Left Player | Right Player|
|----|-------------|-------------|
| Up | W | Up Arrow |
| Down | S | Down Arrow |
| Pause | Esc | Esc |
| Reset | R | R |

Menus are mouse controlled.

<br>

### Summary

This is "Totally Original game not to too dissimilar to the 1972 classic, 'Pong'". Or TOGNTTDTT1972CP for short...let's just call it Pong.

It is a multi-player game so grab a friend, enemy or that confused stranger in the street. You could also play with two hands like I do, I'm lonely.

If you've lived under a rock for the last 45 years, Pong is a greatly simplified version of tennis. Your only objective is to get the ball past your opponent and off the opposite side of the screen, and to do it more often than your opponent.

<br>

### Downloads

To run the the game, simply extract the .zips below and double click on the executable file. (Pong.exe, Pong.x86, Pong.x86_64 or Index.HTML). No install wizards needed just yet.

<a href="/public/projects/pong/0.3/downloads/Pong_03_Win.zip" download>
Windows
</a><br>
<a href="/public/projects/pong/0.3/downloads/Pong_03_Linux.zip" download>
Linux
</a><br>
<a href="/public/projects/pong/0.3/downloads/Pong_03_HTML.zip" download>
HTML/WebGL
</a><br>
<br>

### Notes
* This game is optimized for 16:9 aspect ratios. While it should work on most aspect ratios, UI elements may overlap or be cut off by the windows with extreme ratios, especially on small screens.

<br>

### Update Summary

#### Version: {{page.version}}

It took a lot of 80s music to make this happen. I lost count of the times I noticed a problem and had to redesign or entirely rewrite several pages of code. I am happy with this build however, assuming it works on all platforms, please let me know of any problems. I have had problems with Firefox on Windows before.

I basically redesigned the audio system, all audio clips are now stored within one gameobject (lib_audio) and it's children. This object is initialized in the splash screen and is not destroyed between scenes, meaning the same instance of the objects exists in every scene. The script controlling audio also has only one instance that exists in every scene. While this method does require more code than alternatives, it is much easier to keep track of and modify.

I have taken a similar approach to the new in game menus. Initially I created the main menu and in-game pause menus separately. This was not ideal as some elements (such as the options menu) exist in both and affect the same things so moved all menu based UI elements into a single game object hierarchy (obj_menus). Like the audio this requires more code every time it's needed but again is much easier to track and modify, it also ensures any player set options will persist throughout the whole game not just the present scene, hopefully.

I have also added volume controls and alternative BGM track options because, while 'Voice Over Under' is good, after hearing six hundred times at full volume on every test, I started to tire of it. Like VOU, both the new tracks, 'Cyborg Ninja' and 'Pixelland', are created by Kevin MacLeod at <a href="https://incompetech.com/music/royalty-free/music.html">incompetech.com</a> and should loop pretty well.

### Planned updates
* Improved visuals (eg. backgrounds, more than two colours etc.)
* Tooltips when hovering over menu buttons
* Drop-down menu of preset resolutions for options page
* Fix bug where ball occasionally flies offscreen at high speed
* Add singleplayer mode against AI player
* Add more gamemodes (Ie. AI, rotating paddles, multi-ball, timed, score-limit etc.)
* Lower default volumes

<br>

### Permissions

If you're mad enough to want to use this product on your own site, you are welcome to. Just be nice enough to let me know and give credit.

The Pong Logo and the Posthumous Pixel logo and name are not trademarked but please don't be a d*ck. If you wish to use them let me know and don't pretend it's your own work.

<br>

### Credits

All assets used in this product are under Creative Commons, Public Domain or of my own creation.

"Voice Over Under", "Cyborg Ninja" and "Pixelland"<br>
Kevin MacLeod (<a href="https://incompetech.com/music/royalty-free/music.html">incompetech.com</a>)<br>
Licensed under Creative Commons: By Attribution 3.0
<a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/">
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/</a>

Other Audio clips were sourced from <a href="http://freesound.org/">freesound.org</a> and when I find the original clips I downloaded I will credit the specific artists.

The typeface used currently for all UI text elements (<a href="http://www.1001fonts.com/white-rabbit-font.html">White Rabbit</a> by Matthew Welch) is free for commercial use.

All custom visuals were made by me, that's why they're rubbish.

<br>

### Changelog

#### 0.3
* Added Splash/Initializer Scene
* Added Main menu and proper pause menu
* Added option menu with resolution and audio controls
* Added two alternative BGM tracks
* Replaced OnGUI elements with object based UI elements
* Hidden Fullscreen and quit-to-desktop buttons in WebGl mode

#### 0.25
* Fixed audio import settings, meaning it works in WebGL now
* WebGL player resolution optimized for this site
* UI elements now resize based on window size
* Audio migrated to new script

#### 0.2
* Paddles reset when button pressed
* Added toggle menu with: Pause/Play, Reset, Mute/Unmute and Quit Options
* Added countdown timer on serve
* Tidied up code with some extra comments
* Ball now starts at center (after slight delay)

#### 0.1
* Initial Release
<br><br>

