---
layout: post
title: "Pong"
category: project
year: 2017
image: "/public/post-thumbnails/2017/pong.png"
version: "0.2"
---

#### Version: {{ page.version }}

<iframe src="/public/projects/pong/0.2/index.html" style="border:0px #000000 none;" name="Pong" scrolling="no" height="450px" width="800px"></iframe>

<br>

### Controls:

<table style="text-align: center;">
  <tr>
    <th></th>
    <th>Left Player</th>
    <th>Right Player</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Up</th>
    <td>W</td>
    <td>Up Arrow</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Down</th>
    <td>S</td>
    <td>Down Arrow</td>
  </tr> 
  <tr>
    <th>Pause</th>
    <td colspan="2">Esc</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>Reset</th>
    <td colspan="2">R</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Menus are entirely mouse controlled. Be aware there is no 'Are you sure?' warnings for Reset or Quit just yet.

<br>

### Summary:

This is "Totally Original game not to too dissimilar to the 1972 classic, 'Pong'". Or TOGNTTDTT1972CP for short...let's just call it Pong.

It is a multi-player game so grab a friend, enemy or that confused stranger in the street, you could also play with two hands like I do, I'm lonely.

If you've lived under a rock for the last 45 years, Pong is a greatly simplified version of tennis. Your only objective is to get the ball past your opponent and off the opposite side of the screen, and to do it more often than your opponent.

<br>

### Downloads:
Click to download this build for the following platforms.

<a href="/public/projects/pong/0.2/downloads/Pong_02_Win.zip" download>
Windows
</a><br>
<a href="/public/projects/pong/0.2/downloads/Pong_02_Linux.zip" download>
Linux
</a><br>
<a href="/public/projects/pong/0.2/downloads/Pong_02_HTML.zip" download>
HTML/WebGL
</a><br>
<br>

### Notes:
* Exporting audio into a WebGL build requires a whole different process so that will come later, for now if you want audio (I recommend it, there's a great royalty-free track by Kevin MacLeod) you'll have to download one of the Linux/Windows Builds.
* Once I am happy that this game is complete and tidy, I intend to create a more original version of Pong with extra gamemodes and new features absent from the original Pong.

<br>

### Planned updates:
* More Audio options (eg. Pause/Play, Multiple tracks, mute music/sfx separately)
* Adjustable resolution for HTML
* Adjustable resolution without restart
* Improve Menu interface
* Improved visuals
* Audio for WebGL
* Fix bug where ball occasionally flies offscreen at high speed
* Add singleplayer mode against AI player

<br>

### Permissions

If you're mad enough to want to use this product on your own site, you are welcome to. Just be nice enough to let me know and give credit.

<br>

### Credits

All assets used in this product are under Creative Commons, Public Domain or of my own creation.

"Voice Over Under"<br>
Kevin MacLeod (incompetech.com)<br>
Licensed under Creative Commons: By Attribution 3.0
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/

<br>

### Changelog

#### 0.2
* Paddles reset when button pressed
* Added toggle menu with: Pause/Play, Reset, Mute/Unmute and Quit Options
* Added countdown timer on serve
* Tidied up code with some extra comments
* Ball now starts at center (after slight delay)

#### 0.1
* Initial Release
<br><br>

